<h1>City List Assignment</h1>

<h2>Pre requisites</h2>

I used the latest Python 3.12 version

The following packages needs to be installed in order for the script to run:
os
argparse
pandas (will also install pyarrow)
pandavro (will also install fastavro)
time
datetime
logging
numpy (to support pandavro, version 1.24.3 is needed)
cramjam (this is used in decompression)
bleach (was need to run on my machine, may not be needed in yours)

<h2>Script Usage</h2>

citylist_script.py [-h] -i INPUT [-o OUTPUT] [-e ERROR]

-i: is required and is the path to the location of the files to process
-o: Optional. The output path for the final dataset after removing duplicates and sorting. If not specified, it will be written to the location where you run the script from.
-e: Optional. The path to write all the errors and information logs throughout the script. If not specified, it will be written to the location where you run the script from.

The script supports the following file extensions and can easily add more:
CSV, AVRO, JSON, DAT and Parquet

<h2>Outputs</h2>

1. combined_data_YYYYmmdd_HHMMSS.csv: The dataset generated by the script, YYYYmmdd_HHMMSS is based on the time and date the script ran in the machine's timezone.
The location is based on the use of -o in the script.
2. file_errors_YYYYmmdd_HHMMSS.log: The errors generated throughout the runtime of the script while handling file loading, YYYYmmdd_HHMMSS is based on the time and date the script ran in the machine's timezone.
The location is based on the use of -e in the script. The is empty if there are no errors.
3. Output to the screen, which includes how much time it took to load the file, total runtime, the answers to question 1-3 and the number of rows in the generated file.
Example of output:
Script started
Load time: 0.0431 seconds
The total number of rows in all files is 2583
The total number of unique rows is 2078
The city with the largest population is: Mumbai (Bombay)
The total population in all the cities in Brazil is: 55955012.0
Runtime: 0.0960 seconds
Script ended

<h2>Architecture</h2>
I decided to use python and pandas dataframe for this assignment for 2 main reasons:
1. Python is easily used in any environment and does not require special setup to use. This will allow using my script quickly and easily on any machine.
2. When dealing with table-like files and usecases, on smaller scales pandas is a very good solution, and removes the need to read from and write to a SQL database, which takes addiitonal IO and time.
3. Pandas already supports most table=like files for loading, which saves time and complexity in the script.
